# NerdHerd

Automated recognition of symptoms, is the key to any well-built healthcare system. This project will explore the possibility of using machine learning and smartwatch technology to predict the likelihood a person could suffer from a health condition. The primary objective is to predict with a high degree of accuracy, how likely it is that a person could suffer from hypertension.
Awareness of hypertension is vital in order to prevent potentially life-threatening conditions such as aneurysms. Allowing the user to be more mindful of their hypertension risk-levels from the convenience of portable devices can have a significant societal impact and has the potential to help people all around the world.
This will be accomplished by retrieving health data such as heart rate from the smartwatch’s built-in sensors in addition to the user filling demographic information about themselves. The health and demographic data will be analyzed by our machine learning model, which will be trained through unsupervised learning, and predict the probability the wearer could suffer from hypertension. The model will be trained from clusters of baseline data provided by publically available datasets regarding hypertension.
The system will provide insights and predictions to be displayed within an Android application downloaded to a smartphone. The application will display a chart of the user’s heart rate history as recorded by the smartwatch and other insights found to be relevant. The app’s machine learning capability will be accessible through the press of a button and a message will appear on screen displaying the probability the user could be suffering from hypertension as a percentage. It is important to note as the team is not medically certified, the app cannot make any affirmative diagnosis. The user will be advised to visit a doctor or specialist for confirmation of their condition.
